Welcome to the second course in
the Google Data Analytics certificate.
If you completed Course One,
we met briefly at the beginning,
but for
those of you who are just joining us,
my name is Ximena, and
I'm a Google Finance data analyst.
I think it's really wonderful
that you're here with me
learning about the fascinating
field of data analytics.
Learning and education have
always been very important to me.
When I was young, my mom always said,
"I can't leave you an inheritance, but
I can give you an education that
opens doors."
That always pushed me to keep learning, and
that education gave me the confidence
to apply for my job at Google.
Now I get to do really
meaningful work every day.
Just recently I worked as an analyst
on a team called Verily Life Sciences.
We were helping to get life-saving medical
supplies to those who need it most.
To do this, we forecasted what health
care professionals would need on hand and
then shared that information with networks.
The information that my
team provided helped make
data driven decisions that
actually saved lives.
I'm thrilled to be your instructor for
this course.
We're going to talk about
the difference between effective and
ineffective questions and
learn how to ask great questions that lead
to insights that can help
you solve business problems.
You will discover that effective questions
help you to make the most of all
the data analysis phases. You may
remember that these phases include ask,
prepare, process, analyze, share, and act.
In the ask step,
we define the problem we're solving and
make sure that we fully understand
stakeholder expectations.
This will help keep you
focused on the actual problem,
which leads to more successful outcomes.
So we'll begin this course by
talking about problem solving and
some of the common types of business
problems that data analysts help solve.
And because this course focuses on
the ask phase, you'll learn how to craft
effective questions that help you collect
the right data to solve those problems.
Next, we'll talk about the many
different types of data.
You'll learn how and
when each is the most useful.
You'll also get a chance to explore
spreadsheets further and discover
how they can help make your data
analysis even more effective.
And then we'll start learning
about structured thinking.
Structured thinking is the process of
recognizing the current problem or
situation, organizing
available information,
revealing gaps and opportunities,
and identifying the options.
In this process, you address a vague, complex
problem by breaking it down into smaller
steps, and then those steps lead you to
a logical solution. We'll work together
to be sure you fully understand how to
use structured thinking and data analysis.
Finally, we'll learn some proven strategies
for communicating with others effectively.
I can't wait to share more about my
passion for data analytics with you, so
let's get started.